- [Instructor] One of the best practices
for continuous integration
is to build your software on a neutral server.
So we're going to update our Jenkinsfile
to include a Maven build,
kind of like what we did on our local workstation,
except this time it's going to be automated,
and performed on a cleaned server.
To build our Java application with Maven
inside of our Pipeline,
we're going to add a new step
into the Build Application stage.
So inside the steps block,
I'm going to add a new shell step,
and here I'll use the Maven Wrapper
to execute the clean and verify phases
of the Maven lifecycle.
Now, you might be asking,
where did the Maven Wrapper come from?
Well, when Jenkins executes a Pipeline,
it pulls all the source code
from the repository containing the Jenkinsfile.
And you'll remember that we added the Maven Wrapper
to our room-service project.
So that makes it available to our Pipeline
to execute Maven commands.
Now, the next thing we'll do,
we'll make our Pipeline generic enough
so we can reuse it across different microservices.
The change starts in the pom.xml file.
So inside the file,
I'm going to scroll down to the build section.
Here, I'm going to add the final name tag.
This tag allows us to specify the name of the jar
that Maven will produce when we build our app.
Now, I'm not just going to hard-code any old jar name here.
I'm going to use an argument.
To add an argument inside of a pom,
we just use a dollar sign, then a set of curly braces,
and then the name of our argument.
In this case, it's going to be jarName.
This allows the argument to be passed into the pom
when we execute a Maven build.
Let me go ahead, I'll copy the name of our argument,
and then I'll show you how we pass it.
Back in our Jenkinsfile,
where we use the Maven Wrapper
to execute the clean and verify phases,
we can just add a -D, then the argument name,
then an equal sign.
And here we provide the value for the argument.
Now, you'll remember,
we already have a jar name environment variable
that stores the name of our jar.
Let's go ahead, we'll copy that,
and then we'll add a placeholder here
for the value of the argument.
Okay, now our Pipeline is set up
to build an executable jar with Maven.
Let's do one more thing though.
We're going to use the Docker Pipeline plugin
to execute this stage inside of a Docker container.
If we do a lot of builds,
this can help increase the efficiency of our Pipeline.
To run this stage inside of a Docker container,
we need to override the configuration
of the agent used to execute it.
So I'm going to go ahead and add an agent block
inside of the stage,
and then inside of that,
we're going to add a Docker block.
And here we can use the Docker Pipeline plugin
to set up the Docker container that will run the stage.
The first thing we do is provide an image parameter,
and this is the name of the container image
that we would like to use to run the stage.
Now, we're going to need a JDK.
So I'm going to use the open jdk:11 image here.
Then we're going to add one more parameter.
It's going to be the reuseNode parameter,
and I'm going to set it to true.
Now what this does,
it makes the workspace that's used in this stage
available for later stages in the Pipeline.
So, since we're going to be building our executable jar,
we'll need that in later stages
when we do something like build a container image.
With this configuration in place,
our Pipeline will execute this stage on a Docker container.
So that means the node we run it on
has to have a container runtime installed.
Now, (indistinct) Lab already has Docker,
so we're set up there.
Okay, let's go ahead, we'll save all of our changes,
then we'll head over to the terminal,
and we can start to push these over to GitHub.
So first, I'll add the changes to the stage,
then we'll go ahead and we'll create a new commit,
here, I'll say adding Maven and Docker,
and then we'll push these changes over to GitHub,
to trigger Jenkins to start executing our Pipeline.
Now that they're pushed, let's go to Jenkins,
and we can watch this Pipeline execute.
So I'll navigate inside of our room-service Pipeline
into the main branch,
and then we'll wait for the Pipeline.
And right there we see the build queuing up,
there it's starting to execute.
Let's go check out the console output.
Okay, it looks like the Pipeline was successful.
We can also see we performed a successful Maven build.
So let's scroll up a little bit further,
and here we can check out the stage
that ran inside of a Docker container.
There we see the container image that we ran the stage with,
and here you can actually see the Docker run command
that executed the stage.
Now our Pipeline is able to build the application with Maven
and package it inside of an executable jar.
That's great,
but there's a little bit more work to do from here
to run the application inside of a container.